<!-- Beej's guide to C

# vim: ts=4:sw=4:nosi:et:tw=72
-->

<!-- No hyphenation -->
[nh[scalbn]]
[nh[scalbnf]]
[nh[scalbnl]]
[nh[scalbln]]
[nh[scalblnf]]
[nh[scalblnl]]
<!-- Can't do things that aren't letters
[nh[atan2]]
[nh[atan2f]]
[nh[atan2l]]
-->
[nh[lrint]]
[nh[lrintf]]
[nh[lrintl]]
[nh[llrint]]
[nh[llrintf]]
[nh[llrintl]]
[nh[lround]]
[nh[lroundf]]
[nh[lroundl]]
[nh[llround]]
[nh[llroundf]]
[nh[llroundl]]

# Foreword

No point in wasting words here, folks, let's jump straight into the C
code:

``` {.c}
E((ck?main((z?(stat(M,&t)?P+=a+'{'?0:3:
execv(M,k),a=G,i=P,y=G&255,
sprintf(Q,y/'@'-3?A(*L(V(%d+%d)+%d,0)
```

And they lived happily ever after. The End.

What's this? You say something's still not clear about this whole C
programming language thing?

Well, to be quite honest, I'm not even sure what the above code does.
It's a snippet from one of the entries in the 2001 [fl[International
Obfuscated C Code Contest|https://www.ioccc.org/]], a wonderful
competition wherein the entrants attempt to write the most unreadable C
code possible, with often surprising results.

The bad news is that if you're a beginner in this whole thing, all C
code you see probably looks obfuscated! The good news is, it's not
going to be that way for long.

What we'll try to do over the course of this guide is lead you from
complete and utter sheer lost confusion on to the sort of enlightened
bliss that can only be obtained though pure C programming. Right on.

## Audience

This guide assumes that you've already got some programming knowledge
under your belt from another language, such as
[flw[Python|Python_(programming_language)]],
[flw[JavaScript|JavaScript]], [flw[Java|Java_(programming_language)]],
[flw[Rust|Rust_(programming_language)]],
[flw[Go|Go_(programming_language)]],
[flw[Swift|Swift_(programming_language)]], etc.
([flw[Objective-C|Objective-C]] devs will have a particularly easy time
of it!)

We're going to assume you know what variables are, what loops do, how
functions work, and so on.

If that's not you for whatever reason the best I can hope to provide is
some pastey entertainment for your reading pleasure. The only thing I
can reasonably promise is that this guide won't end on a
cliffhanger...or _will_ it?

## Platform and Compiler

I'll try to stick to Plain Ol'-Fashioned [flw[ISO-standard C|ANSI_C]].
Well, for the most part. Here and there I might go crazy and start
talking about [flw[POSIX|POSIX]] or something, but we'll see.

**Unix** users (e.g. Linux, BSD, etc.) try running `cc` or `gcc` from
the command line--you might already have a compiler installed. If you
don't, search your distribution for installing `gcc` or `clang`.

**Windows** users should check out [fl[Visual Studio
Community|https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/]]. Or, if
you're looking for a more Unix-like experience (recommended!), install
[fl[WSL|https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10]] and
`gcc`.

**Mac** users will want to install
[fl[XCode|https://developer.apple.com/xcode/]], and in particular the
command line tools.

There are a lot of compilers out there, and virtually all of them will
work for this book. And for those not in the know, a C++ compiler will
compile most C code, so it'll work for the purposes of this guide.

## Official Homepage

This official location of this document is
[fl[https://beej.us/guide/bgc/|https://beej.us/guide/bgc/]]. Maybe
this'll change in the future, but it's more likely that all the other
guides are migrated off Chico State computers.

## Email Policy

I'm generally available to help out with email questions so feel free to
write in, but I can't guarantee a response. I lead a pretty busy life
and there are times when I just can't answer a question you have. When
that's the case, I usually just delete the message. It's nothing
personal; I just won't ever have the time to give the detailed answer
you require.

As a rule, the more complex the question, the less likely I am to
respond. If you can narrow down your question before mailing it and be
sure to include any pertinent information (like platform, compiler,
error messages you're getting, and anything else you think might help me
troubleshoot), you're much more likely to get a response.

If you don't get a response, hack on it some more, try to find the
answer, and if it's still elusive, then write me again with the
information you've found and hopefully it will be enough for me to help
out.

Now that I've badgered you about how to write and not write me, I'd just
like to let you know that I _fully_ appreciate all the praise the guide
has received over the years. It's a real morale boost, and it gladdens
me to hear that it is being used for good! `:-)` Thank you!

## Mirroring

You are more than welcome to mirror this site, whether publicly or
privately. If you publicly mirror the site and want me to link to it
from the main page, drop me a line at
[`beej@beej.us`](mailto:beej@beej.us).

## Note for Translators

If you want to translate the guide into another language, write me at
[`beej@beej.us`](beej@beej.us) and I'll link to your translation from
the main page. Feel free to add your name and contact info to the
translation.

Please note the license restrictions in the Copyright and Distribution
section, below.

## Copyright and Distribution

Beej's Guide to Network Programming is Copyright Â© 2021 Brian "Beej
Jorgensen" Hall.

With specific exceptions for source code and translations, below, this
work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No
Derivative Works 3.0 License. To view a copy of this license, visit
[`https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/`](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/)
or send a letter to Creative Commons, 171 Second Street, Suite 300, San
Francisco, California, 94105, USA.

One specific exception to the "No Derivative Works" portion of the
license is as follows: this guide may be freely translated into any
language, provided the translation is accurate, and the guide is
reprinted in its entirety. The same license restrictions apply to the
translation as to the original guide. The translation may also include
the name and contact information for the translator.

The C source code presented in this document is hereby granted to the
public domain, and is completely free of any license restriction.

Educators are freely encouraged to recommend or supply copies of this
guide to their students.

Contact [`beej@beej.us`](beej@beej.us) for more information.

